---
layout: post
title: Vim with TMUX
comments: disqus
---

I wrote this set of instructions to help my fellow grad students in the STAT
department at UC - Santa Cruz better utilize the available resources in our
department. I have tried to make this tutorial general, but may at times refer
to resources (servers) specific to our department.

Feel free to leave a comment below!

# STAT Servers at UCSC
There are several Linux interactive servers available at UCSC. You can log in to
an interactive server and execute commands, like you would on your local
machine, in a terminal. 

(The most powerful interactive servers at UCSC STAT are `jerez`, `mencia`, and
`muscat`.)

In order to efficiently use the resources on the Linux server, it helps to know
how to efficiently navigate a UNIX terminal. If you have a MAC or LINUX
machine, you have a UNIX terminal. If you have Windows 10, you can now access a
LINUX BASH shell natively.  Though the setup is quite straight-forward, it is
out of the scope of this post.

In this post, I will review the basics of navigating and executing
commands on a UNIX terminal. I will then show you how to do it on a server.
It's often good to start with the end in mind. So I'll start with a motivating
example.

# Motivating Example
The following shows one way to **run an R-script on an interactive server**:

1. Launch SFTP (secure file transfer protocol) to send / receive files from a server (say `jerez`)
   - `sftp myUserName@jerez.soe.ucsc.edu`
2. Send your script to the server
    - `put myFile.R`
3. Log on to the server
    - `ssh -Y myUserName@jerez.soe.ucsc.edu`
    - The `-Y` option allows you to open graphics on the server. It's not necessary if you don't intend to view graphs over the network.
4. Execute the command on your script
    - `Rscript myFile.R &`
    - Note here that the command `Rscript` acts on the script `myFile.R`.
    - The ampersand `&` at the end is optional. It allows you to execute
      your script "in the background". Meaning, you can do other things in
      your terminal after executing a command (e.g. `Rscript`). You can 
      even log off the server while the job runs. Without the ampersand, 
      you cannot use the terminal until the job is finished. If you
      exit the server before the job is done, your job stops and your
      results will not be saved. Therefore, add `&` at the end of your commands
      when you have long-running jobs.
    - Also, if you plan to run many jobs, you should add `nice` before your
      command. (e.g. `nice Rscript myFile.R &`) This basically prevents you
      from becoming a server hog who uses most of the resources on the server.
5. Send results back to your computer
    - `get myOutput.rda`

<!--TODO:Insert a video here -->

# Avoid Excessive Typing 
You can **create an alias for a server** to reduce typing `username@server` every time
Just add this to `~/.ssh/config`, after replacing the tags.


```bash
#! This file belongs in ~/.ssh/config
Host <shortName>
  HostName <server>
  User <username>
  ForwardX11 yes
```

For example, 
```bash
#! This file belongs in ~/.ssh/config
Host jerez
  HostName jerez.soe.ucsc.edu
  User myUserName
  ForwardX11 yes
```

Now, to log in to the server `jerez.soe.ucsc.edu`, you only need to type `ssh jerez`.
You can do this for multiple servers, so your `config` file might look like this.

```bash
#! This file belongs in ~/.ssh/config
Host jerez
  HostName jerez.soe.ucsc.edu
  User myUserName
  ForwardX11 yes

Host mencia
  HostName mencia.soe.ucsc.edu
  User myUserName
  ForwardX11 yes

Host muscay
  HostName muscat.soe.ucsc.edu
  User myUserName
  ForwardX11 yes
```



To **avoid re-entering your password every time** when you log in to the same server
though `ssh` or `sftp`, you can do the following.

1. Generate an ssh key locally by executing `ssh-keygen`. Then hit enter
   whenever you're prompted to do something.
2. Then run the following line in your terminal to send the key to your server.
   Enter your user-name and password when prompted. Replace the tags accordingly.
   ```bash
   cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | ssh <username>@<server> 'cat >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys'
   ```
   For example,
   ```bash
   cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | ssh myUserName@jerez.soe.ucsc.edu 'cat >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys'
   ```
   All this does is send the public key you generated before to the server in a
   specific location. Also this is all very safe. You're not saving your *password* on the server.
   Your just allowing the server to recognize your machine. The only problem is if someone 
   stole your computer and you had it left on, someone could log in to your server without
   typing a password.

Now, you won't be prompted for your password every time you log in from the machine you're
*currently* on.

Note: For some reason, sometimes, you need to send your public key to another location. Another
common location is `~/.ssh/authorized_keys2`. So, change the previous command to:
```bash
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub | ssh myUserName@jerez.soe.ucsc.edu 'cat >> ~/.ssh/authorized_keys2'
```

# Git
SFTP is a great tool, but the process above can be tedious for managing
multiple files.  There's a better way if you have a lot more files to move
around. You could put your project in a Git repository and pull your repository
onto the server. 

<!--TODO: Put an example here. -->


# Using Vim with TMUX
TMUX is a terminal multiplexer. It basically allows you to open multiple
screens in a terminal at a time. Say you start a tmux session on a server. You
can start a job in tmux, leave it running, leave your tmux session, leave the
server, and the job will still be running.

Vim is a text editor. It has strange key bindings that can be very convenient
when you get used to them.

Using Vim with tmux has increased my productivity as a developer. Getting familiar
with these tools also greatly enhances productivity in a terminal, where there
is no GUI, but where Vim and TMUX are installed.

Vim is installed on most compute servers (including the STAT servers).

tmux is not installed on the STAT servers, but you can install it following
[these instructions][5]. On your personal devices, where you have root access,
you can install tmux using a [package manager][6].

I usually configure my tmux and vim by adding two configuration files so that I
can navigate my terminal a little better, and run scripts line by line.

Add these two files to their respective locations:
- Add [`tmux.conf`][1] to `~/.tmux.conf`
    - note the `.` before `tmux.conf`
    - If you already have a `~/.tmux.conf`, you may want to either back it up
      and replace it, or edit it by appending the new content.
- Add [`line-feeder.vim`][2] `~/.vim/plugin/line-feeder.vim`
    - Similarly, if you don't have a `~/.vim/plugin/` folder, you will need to
      create it.

Now, you should be set. Here's a demo of what you can do with vim and tmux, and
these additional config files.

<iframe width="560" height="315"
src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/Ckjh0r9Pn3Q" frameborder="0"
allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture"
allowfullscreen></iframe>

---

### Credits:

- I got `tmux.conf` from my adviser, David Dahl,  at BYU during my time there
  as a Statistics masters student.
- The video was made using a screen-caster for Linux called [`kazam`][3]. The
  key-presses were captured and displayed using [`screenkey`][4].

[1]: /assets/vim-tmux/tmux.conf
[2]: /assets/vim-tmux/line-feeder.vim
[3]: https://launchpad.net/kazam
[4]: https://gitlab.com/wavexx/screenkey
[5]: https://gist.github.com/luiarthur/8030535486fdbcf9e5e6b65a2d9a7190
[6]: https://github.com/tmux/tmux/wiki/Installing
